[Music]
India is an agricultural country, and
approximately 60% of its population depends on agriculture.
Given the importance of agricultural issues, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) protects farmers from
losses due to local disasters. The
process for reporting crop losses due to local disasters is simple.
Affected insureds must report the disaster
directly to the insurance company's toll-free number,
Drop Insurance App, or through their
bank, the Agriculture Department, or through the Crop Insurance
Facility Center in writing within 72 hours.
This information should include their name, mobile number,
Khasra number, insurance receipt number, type of disaster,
affected crop, etc.
Within two days of receiving the information, a joint committee consisting of a representative of the insurance company
and an officer of the Agriculture Department will be
formed. This joint survey will be conducted
within 10 days. The farmer will be called for this survey,
and the committee will
directly survey the field. The
estimated loss will be determined based on the condition of the crop in the survey.
Farmers should
not remove their crops until the survey is completed. Waterlogging losses due to local disasters will
not apply to crops like paddy.
Post-harvest disasters, i.e., those crops that occur after harvesting, will only be
applicable to crops
that are harvested and allowed to dry in the field. Now, success will
easily come into your life.
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana which will bring greenery in the fields and prosperity in life,
ICICI will keep its promises for a long time.